Cert-Scripts package is a (incomplete) set of scripts contributed 
by the PPDG RA to help with various functions related to the
DOEGrids PKI. Now maintained by the OSG RA.
For questions, comments, info contact ra@ppdg.net, or Doug Olson,
dlolson@lbl.gov, osg-ra@opensciencegrid.org.

Contents:
cert-scripts/
 README -                 this file
 example-service-request.txt -  example wrapper script to cert-gridadmin
                                to generate certificate and key files
                                named <hostname-service>{cert|key}.pem
 bin/
  cert-check-time -       checks lifetime of certificates and revocation lists
  cert-gridadmin -        submit/get certificate via GridAdmin interface
  cert-lookup -           queries directory based on DN of certificates
  cert-request -          generates and submits a certificate signing request
  cert-retrieve -         retrieves signed certificate previously requested
  cert-renew -            renews existing certificate for OU=People
  multi-cert-gridadmin -  get multiple certificates via GridAdmin interface
 lib/
  cert-time-expires.awk - used by cert-check-time.sh
  cert-time-sort.awk -    used by cert-check-time.sh
  CertLib.pm -            perl utilities
  CertLib.py -            python utilities

 test/                    various files used for testing a release,
  ...                     not necesarily needed for an installation

 dev/                     part of a complete source distribution
  ...                     for extra code under development or temporarily
                          needed modifications to external packages
  M2Crypto                the external package with mods needed for
                          multi-cert-gridadmin     

Install instructions:
  For all scripts except for multi-cert-gridadmin you can just
  untar to directory location where you want them installed.
  multi-cert-gridadmin has some additional installation requirements.
  See InstallationNotes.txt for more description of the current status
  of installing multi-cert-gridadmin and its dependencies.

Release notes:
Version: V2-7  18 May 2009
       Moves URL for getting current VO information from VORS to OIM.
       The VORS URL is obsolete and will be non-functional in August 2009.
       Add capability to save and read commandline parameters for
       cert-request, cert-retrieve, cert-gridadmin.
       Updated usage/help listing to indicate long option names take
       two dashes '--'. They always did, but the help text did not show it.
       Probably some other minor fixes.

Version: V2-6  13 Feb. 2008
       Bug fix in cert-gridadmin about SSL Server in nscerttype
       Other minor repairs and cleanup.

Version: V2-5  24 Aug. 2007
       Bug fixes in multi-cert-gridadmin.
       Add PKCS12 export option to cert-retrieve and cert-renew.

Version: V2-4  6 July 2007
       Updates for new CA software deployed 5 July 2007, RHCS 7.1
       Includes updated email notifications for script requested certificates.

Version: V2-3  1 June 2007
       Added multi-cert-gridadmin to support multiple certificates with
       a single GridAdmin request.

Version: V2-2  19 Mar. 2007
       Added http_proxy support to cert-request, cert-retrieve, cert-gridadmin,
       CertLib.pm.  Before it was only in cert-renew (go figure???).

Version: V2-1  20 Nov. 2006
       Add SSL_Server attribute to cert-gridadmin requests.
       Remove SSL_Server from OU=People requests in cert-request.
       Update list of VOs in default volist in CertLib.pm.

Version: V2-0  5 Oct. 2006
       Change to pull allowed RA and VO information from live (remote)
       sites instead of being wired into the scripts. A default is
       included in the script in case of communications errors while the
       script executes.  This affects cert-request, cert-retrieve,
       cert-gridadmin, cert-renew.

Version: V1-9  6 Sept. 2006
       Update list of RAs and VOs. PPDG, iVDGL, 'Other' RAs are out.
       Update cert-request/cert-retrieve with -label option to match
            permit matching multiple request/retrieve sessions.
       Add -e flag (query by  email address) to cert-lookup.
       Cert-renew requires new keys to be generated.

Version: V1-8a 20 July 2006
       Change to cert-request to require -name for service certificates.
       Add package version number into UserAgent string in all scripts that
          POST to a web submission interface.

Version: V1-8  30 June 2006
       Update scripts to work with http_proxy gateways. (Thanks to J. Smith)
       Update for OSG RA, including list of OSG VOs.
       Added example-service-request.txt (Thanks to M. Ballantijn)
       Bug fix to correct HTTP_PARAMS.subject which caused incorrect CN in email
           notice to agents.

Version: V1-7  13 Dec 2005
       Add cert-gridadmin script.
       cert-lookup changed because the temporary binary certificate files
       produced by ldapsearch became mixed case rather than lower case.
       It is unknown what caused this change butit may be that previous
       versions of cert-lookup will not work.

Version: V1-6  14 Mar 2005
       Change -comment option in cert-request to mandatory -reason flag.
       Subscriber must give a reason they qualify for a DOEGrids certificate.

Version: V1-5 22 Feb 2005
       Change package layout according to VDT suggestion to
       include cert-scripts home directory as well as 
       bin and lib sub directories.

Version: V1-4  26 Jan 2005
       restrict possible affiliations in cert-request to a specified list
       reduce amount of /dev/urandom to 255 chars in cert-request

Version:  V1-3  25 Jan 2005
       clarified that cert-renew is only for OU=People

Version:  V1-2  19 Jan 2005

For additional information use -help flag with each script, or see
http://osg.ivdgl.org/twiki/bin/view/Security/CertScriptsPackage.
