do we need revocation in authorization stage? 
	
loss of assertion can lead to loss of identity if the user does not act in time to renew the identity. 

decisions and assertions traveling through the system. they could be two separate control channels. assertions can expire . but decisions in the past do not expire? should they expire? for example should you find the person and kick them out of the system and undo everything they have done in the system. or should you just stop their work and leave what ever they have done in the pass. you can also renew the assertion or not. you can just do nothing (not renew assertions or undo anything) until a new decision request comes. at that time, because assertion is expired the decision will be a deny. or you can renew assertions but do nto do anything about the decision and let the job run . when the new decision request comes, user continues. 


would propagation of assertion is equal to creating a new assertion? 

shibboleth does NOT have any concept of delegation.
saml/incommon has bearer credentials but bearer credentials can be targeted for a specific SP. they can instead create a random hash and send to the SP that can only mean "a student" with no identity and no sp targets. when idp generates the targeted id, it calculates the same hash number. 

COManage

OCSP provides what our software provides . should we look at the ocsp out of the box. 
Mike Helm says "CRL should not be your lifeline"

DOE entrust is meant for encryption. 

web server, personal, personal grid certs, code signing cert. terena representing each nren have a contract for comodo ca. this can relieve national cas from issuing certs. incommon also plans to do the same in the US.  

in the catastrophe, what happens if goc is compromised. do we have a back up plan to distribute trusted CA roots?

Miron always limited Miron-prof vs Miron-networkuser as authZ problem. But now he says this is part of the AuthN. 

un-interactive delegation is needed. especially for 

saml does not do delegation that would be a big problem. 

useability is also another problem of shibboleth. what shib does is exactly what attackers try to trick users doing into 

oauth is used for delegation in the web world. saml delegation? 
every time incommon delegates, the user goes back to the IdP. web world is not going to develop a solution for non-interactive jobs?? but grid world needs are for non-interactive sessions. should we change access requirements in grid to interactive ?

if we have the shib and incommon to survive , what would we come up with a solution?


SECOND DAY

LIGO:importing a browser. gave up on the browser cert exporting. why is this a problem? 
	browser and software related problems. small number of users having most problems. 
Ian says exteremely difficult to x509, big hangup. portability of certs is an issue. myproxy could be a solution.  
Ian: Time to get cert is so high we lose users. uname/passwd is needed
Mike: web 2.0 problem
Education: is it a really problem

keith: not intuitive process. 
ligo: vetting process is really time consuming. ra and professor communication time consuming. one size does not fit all. some communities may not need a stringent ca.
	tie users identities to twikis, code repositories within VO community. 
	native packaging for server side
	gridmap files are still managed by hand. does not fit ligo needs. for ligo users their wiki is as important or mre for them than their grid computing. 

engage: in general things are working well. experience the same problems. os and browser diversity. long process for bootstrapping somebody. why it takes so long. banks are getting this much faster. using local campus ids would make much easier.  

sbgrid: users have sporadic basis usage. batch submission. considering setting up their own CAs. teragrid model. populate a myproxy server, retrieveing certs by uname/passwd. web based interface. ldap based access to data. everything is tied to ldap based system. single identity to all assets from sbgrid. root of this uname/passwd interface. 
three different identities or four for every users. move onto role-based access. we like x509 we like vo attributes. we just want 

group and role based solution needed for ligo and sbgrid. that should work for local account, web based, and other accounts. 
sbgrid also needs it. 
dynamic ad-hoc vo solution. quickly form collaborations is a pressing need. accessing the data is the problem. shared http password to access data. computing is not the pressing issue in dynamic VOs. 
ligo says delegation of management attributes 

us-cms: most of these issues come as minor annoyances. globally distributed certificate team is used to vet certificates. 
registering in VOMS is another problem. 
shorter crl lifetimes makes life much harder, causing authN failures. we put monitoring to solve.jobs are failing and causing problems at ucsd. 1 hour everyday jobs failed. amount of compute time wasted. cms montioring tools . the real benefit of x509 is workign offline. having to update crls so quickly turns this into online system. software implements the ca policy decisions without giving sites and VOs a chance to decide on the policy. ca therefore 

keith says ca operators needs to do a better job of running their infrastructure. 
ca infrastructure is brittle. 
cms have three credentials . kerberos is used at cms. linking it with cern kerberos
glideinwms ; fair share of pilots are a problem. different identity requirements for pilots? 
igor says each user will eventually have their own pilots. 
keith says there is no special access needs for a pilot mechanism. no need to authenticate a pilot specially

us-cms: job submission via the web. not a short range need.  us engage has a solution for that. delegation is not possible for the web. 

there is a real need for data access to be managd at group level. user uid is used for data access. cms data is read available . dcache does not understand this issue. that is why gid is a problem. 
voms management , validating groups and roles. data and computing access models are different. data needs groups, jobs do not need groups

us-atlas: basic needs are served. processing priorities is not a problem. 
site admin is fine with all of the tools. 
bnl uses web-auth for allowing atlas users to see twiki for atlas assets. 
fundamental security principle is integrity. not privacy. 
both cms and atlas insists there are no problems within the critical path. 
data needs are not clear. 

static groups vs dynamic roles. vomrs satisfy our needs. my proxy is used for our storage solutions. there is no current problems except desktop. 

doe site security people think they have to do this. a lot of tools run on tier 2 and tier 1 rep a small amount. 

alice usa: very small group. no showstopper. groupings of 4-5. community is small but some body helps them. 
education is really the key. atlas does nto have any trainign but things work. 

vo based training seems like the key. 
infrequent actions cause the problem. bootstrapping the user. 

fermilab vo: concurrent vo and id management. fermilab vo gives trainig to users. getting kerberos to kca certs. single identity with multiple assertions. kerberos is used for ssh access. fermilab vo provides the service to their users. they are self-suffciient . fermi kca has the ability to continue run even if fermilab off the network

 miron says how can we provide this to others? 

cdf: renewal was a problem. portal has the power to create credential on behalf of user. kca created the kerberos certs. cdf is this leading to a vo-based identity such that when i join a new vo , i get a new identity. do we want vo to become a idp? 
 
star: star has no news. most scientists do not touch the credentials. nothing too surprising.  


 abe says risks outweighed the benefits. ligo is using a simple ldap structure and generates gridmap files from that. roles are stated in ldap, and generated in flat grid map files. gums would be an over kill for their needs. each gatekeeper would generate the grid-map file from ldap. for the web they plan to use ldap completely.



support the work we do at engage: well known codes vetted and provided to the user. 

ligo 10% increase in community. more diverse. ligo data grid and which CAs chinese is going to use. hiatus in data taking model before advanced ligo. asked to open up data. external collaborations , gamma ray , web-space collaborations. restricted sharing of data, and data may be co-analyzed. finer-granularity data access controls. how is ligo going to get their collaborators up to speed? ice-cube collaboration with ligo. should osg try to  address? do we have right structures to serve these needs? 
two scenarios to understand : use  

cms- factor of 2 user growth. computing model is not changing. tier 3 is a bit more dedicated effort. risk assessment and security challenges. should we include worst case nightmare scenarios in our survey. how to include VOs in stress testing?

ligo's biggest fear is inside job. scientists are the most dangerous. 
us-atlas are worried about small scale hacks, intrusions. 

vo management ligo can mostly do it. vo purging-management. 
vo termination problem. 


data portability or purging data when vo or site leaves OSG. what happens to distributed data when a site leaves OSG. 

if hadoop is confiscated, you lose all the worker nodes. 

ligo cybersecurity committee. ligo computing committee. cms would point to cms computing committee. burt says he is not the right person. 

sbgrid: rep both resource provoiders and vo users. data and process privacy is very important. voms compromise is a failure scenario. 

doegrids certificate can revoke certs even when an attacker says the certs are comrpomised. this is a weakness identified. 

not the intrusion but the time it took to bring it up and clean the machine.  

how a site communicates compromise to other CAs. what if a site in china compromised would know to report this to? 

what about grid proxy lifetimes? 
	48 hours or 76 hours
	95% jobs finish under 24 hours at fermilab 
	3 days mostly job lifetimes at atlas. 
	in egee longest is 96 hours. 
	production jobs run with service certs
	analysis jobs needs a passphrase typed in every day. 

atlas uses myproxy as the renewal mechanism. 

igor thought that proxy renewal is not sanctioned by osg. he thought that is not sanctioned. 

usability problem. should we re-name security officer as usability officer. 

ligo talked about redundant cas with same name domain, for the record, osg security officer gave her ok when ligo asked them. 

ligo asked someone to give a quick response from igtf. 

osg did not make an official request to igtf. 

revokign a host cert. symmetry of revoking a host cert. 

mike says they can host ca for vos. mike is asking osg to help building resources  

action item for VOs to write down their biggest risk scenarios. 

bart asked john hover about software security analysis of gums and asked about money. voms would be a much better target for evaluation. 
glexec have not been deployed anywhere but bnl in atlas









	 
 


	



