Subject: FW: Working group(s): mandate and proposed groupsDate: Tuesday, July 26, 2011 10:32 AMFrom: Ernst, Michael <mernst@bnl.gov>To: OSG-ET <osg-et@opensciencegrid.org>Conversation: Working group(s): mandate and proposed groups For your information: Several weeks ago there was a message from Markus Schulz inviting people to comment on the creation of a group working on the evolution of technology used in the future by WLCG. While this group is supposed to create a kind of outlook for the future, participants at the WLCG Collaboration Meeting earlier this month were introduced to the idea of having working groups in key areas providing input as the foundation to creating the document.  Find attached the mandate for the Technical Evolution Group and below the proposed working groups and their respective objectives. --   Michael From: Ian Bird [mailto:Ian.Bird@cern.ch] Sent: Tuesday, July 26, 2011 3:50 AMTo: worldwide-lcg-management-board (LCG Management Board)Subject: Working group(s): mandate and proposed groups Dear all, Please find attached an update to the mandate of the proposed working groups according to what was discussed in the MB last week. Here is my proposal for the working groups that we should set up.  I have tried to limit the number of groups to a manageable number.  The bullet points below each group are my suggestion of the scope of the discussions within each.  I think there are 4 main areas for discussion: 1. Data Management (essentially summarise directions from the demonstrators, and new work that is needed)All demonstrators data placement FTS, xrootd transfer protocols – gridftp, vs ?? data access security needs Future of POOL, (COOL, Coral under databases) ROOT, Proof?  Interactions with data and storage management 2. Storage ManagementSeparation of archives and disk pools future storage system needs storage system interfaces (to grid) filesystems/protocols: NFS4.x, S3, … Storage access security (access control) 3. Workload managementpilots and frameworks CE's - what is needed from them? WMS? required? clouds virtualisation security model (MUPJs etc) information services  4. Databases (this may be an extension of the DB workshop held last month?)NOSQL vs Oracle, MySQL, etc Frontier, squids, vs 3D/Streams, GoldenGate, DataGuard etc CORAL, COOL  In addition, I think we need to say something about these additional areas too: 5. Security ModelFederated identity management, integration with VOMS/X509(e.g. Use of Shibboleth, other Ids…) Use of VOMS (what functionality is needed?)  6. "Operations Considerations" - perhaps these come naturally from the above discussions, but should not be forgotten.  Some of these items are important for sites, but perhaps not for experiments, and vice-versa.Monitoring, other tools and services General services (like ActiveMQ) Software management Deployment management Configuration management Support tools (at least we should list what we need: APEL, GGUS, SAM, etc) Operations requirements on middleware ... (covered above?)   Please send any comments on the mandate, the proposed groups, or missing topics, to the mail list.  I hope we can agree this by mail. Please also send proposals for chairs of each group.  As discussed and agreed last week, we should have 2 chairs of each group – 1 person from an experiment and 1 from a site. The scope and specific mandates of each group can be finalized together with the chairs.  Once we have the chairs then we can also agree the membership of each group. I would like to aim to try and finalize this setting up by the MB on Aug 9. Cheers, Ian